ARCHIVE_WRITE_OPTIONS(3) BSD Library Functions Manual ARCHIVE_WRITE_OPTIONS(3)

NAME
     archive_write_set_filter_option, archive_write_set_format_option,
     archive_write_set_option, archive_write_set_options — functions control‐
     ling options for writing archives

LIBRARY
     Streaming Archive Library (libarchive, -larchive)

SYNOPSIS
     int
     archive_write_set_filter_option(struct archive *, const char *module,
	 const char *option, const char *value);

     int
     archive_write_set_format_option(struct archive *, const char *module,
	 const char *option, const char *value);

     int
     archive_write_set_option(struct archive *, const char *module,
	 const char *option, const char *value);

     int
     archive_write_set_options(struct archive *, const char *options);

DESCRIPTION
     These functions provide a way for libarchive clients to configure spe‐
     cific write modules.

     archive_write_set_filter_option(), archive_write_set_format_option()
	     Specifies an option that will be passed to the currently-regis‐
	     tered filters (including decompression filters) or format read‐
	     ers.

	     If option and value are both NULL, these functions will do noth‐
	     ing and ARCHIVE_OK will be returned.  If option is NULL but value
	     is not, these functions will do nothing and ARCHIVE_FAILED will
	     be returned.

	     If module is not NULL, option and value will be provided to the
	     filter or reader named module.  The return value will be either
	     ARCHIVE_OK if the option was successfully handled or ARCHIVE_WARN
	     if the option was unrecognized by the module or could otherwise
	     not be handled.  If there is no such module, ARCHIVE_FAILED will
	     be returned.

	     If module is NULL, option and value will be provided to every
	     registered module.  If any module returns ARCHIVE_FATAL, this
	     value will be returned immediately.  Otherwise, ARCHIVE_OK will
	     be returned if any module accepts the option, and ARCHIVE_FAILED
	     in all other cases.

     archive_write_set_option()
	     Calls archive_write_set_format_option(), then
	     archive_write_set_filter_option().  If either function returns
	     ARCHIVE_FATAL, ARCHIVE_FATAL will be returned immediately.  Oth‐
	     erwise, the greater of the two values will be returned.

     archive_write_set_options()
	     options is a comma-separated list of options.  If options is NULL
	     or empty, ARCHIVE_OK will be returned immediately.

	     Individual options have one of the following forms:
	     option=value
		     The option/value pair will be provided to every module.
		     Modules that do not accept an option with this name will
		     ignore it.
	     option  The option will be provided to every module with a value
		     of “1”.
	     !option
		     The option will be provided to every module with a NULL
		     value.
	     module:option=value, module:option, module:!option
		     As above, but the corresponding option and value will be
		     provided only to modules whose name matches module.

OPTIONS
     Filter b64encode
	     mode    The value is interpreted as octal digits specifying the
		     file mode.
	     name    The value specifies the file name.
     Filter bzip2
	     compression-level
		     The value is interpreted as a decimal integer specifying
		     the bzip2 compression level. Supported values are from 1
		     to 9.
     Filter gzip
	     compression-level
		     The value is interpreted as a decimal integer specifying
		     the gzip compression level. Supported values are from 0
		     to 9.
	     timestamp
		     Store timestamp. This is enabled by default.
     Filter lrzip
	     compression=type
		     Use type as compression method.  Supported values are
		     “bzip2”, “gzipi”, “lzo” (ultra fast), and “zpaq” (best,
		     extremely slow).
	     compression-level
		     The value is interpreted as a decimal integer specifying
		     the lrzip compression level. Supported values are from 1
		     to 9.
     Filter lz4
	     compression-level
		     The value is interpreted as a decimal integer specifying
		     the lz4 compression level. Supported values are from 0 to
		     9.
	     stream-checksum
		     Enable stream checksum. This is enabled by default.
	     block-checksum
		     Enable block checksum. This is disabled by default.
	     block-size
		     The value is interpreted as a decimal integer specifying
		     the lz4 compression block size. Supported values are from
		     4 to 7 (default).
	     block-dependence
		     Use the previous block of the block being compressed for
		     a compression dictionary to improve compression ratio.
		     This is disabled by default.
     Filter lzop
	     compression-level
		     The value is interpreted as a decimal integer specifying
		     the lzop compression level. Supported values are from 1
		     to 9.
     Filter uuencode
	     mode    The value is interpreted as octal digits specifying the
		     file mode.
	     name    The value specifies the file name.
     Filter xz
	     compression-level
		     The value is interpreted as a decimal integer specifying
		     the compression level. Supported values are from 0 to 9.
	     threads
		     The value is interpreted as a decimal integer specifying
		     the number of threads for multi-threaded lzma compres‐
		     sion.  If supported, the default value is read from
		     lzma_cputhreads().
     Filter zstd
	     compression-level
		     The value is interpreted as a decimal integer specifying
		     the compression level. Supported values depend on the li‐
		     brary version, common values are from 1 to 22.
     Format 7zip
	     compression
		     The value is one of “store”, “deflate”, “bzip2”, “lzma1”,
		     “lzma2” or “ppmd” to indicate how the following entries
		     should be compressed.  Note that this setting is ignored
		     for directories, symbolic links, and other special en‐
		     tries.
	     compression-level
		     The value is interpreted as a decimal integer specifying
		     the compression level.  Values between 0 and 9 are sup‐
		     ported.  The interpretation of the compression level de‐
		     pends on the chosen compression method.
     Format bin
	     hdrcharset
		     The value is used as a character set name that will be
		     used when translating file names.
     Format gnutar
	     hdrcharset
		     The value is used as a character set name that will be
		     used when translating file, group and user names.
     Format iso9660 - volume metadata
	     These options are used to set standard ISO9660 metadata.
	     abstract-file=filename
		     The file with the specified name will be identified in
		     the ISO9660 metadata as holding the abstract for this
		     volume.  Default: none.
	     application-id=filename
		     The file with the specified name will be identified in
		     the ISO9660 metadata as holding the application identi‐
		     fier for this volume.  Default: none.
	     biblio-file=filename
		     The file with the specified name will be identified in
		     the ISO9660 metadata as holding the bibliography for this
		     volume.  Default: none.
	     copyright-file=filename
		     The file with the specified name will be identified in
		     the ISO9660 metadata as holding the copyright for this
		     volume.  Default: none.
	     publisher=filename
		     The file with the specified name will be identified in
		     the ISO9660 metadata as holding the publisher information
		     for this volume.  Default: none.
	     volume-id=string
		     The specified string will be used as the Volume Identi‐
		     fier in the ISO9660 metadata.  It is limited to 32 bytes.
		     Default: none.
     Format iso9660 - boot support
	     These options are used to make an ISO9660 image that can be di‐
	     rectly booted on various systems.
	     boot=filename
		     The file matching this name will be used as the El Torito
		     boot image file.
	     boot-catalog=name
		     The name that will be used for the El Torito boot cata‐
		     log.  Default: boot.catalog
	     boot-info-table
		     The boot image file provided by the boot=filename option
		     will be edited with appropriate boot information in bytes
		     8 through 64.  Default: disabled
	     boot-load-seg=hexadecimal-number
		     The load segment for a no-emulation boot image.
	     boot-load-size=decimal-number
		     The number of "virtual" 512-byte sectors to be loaded
		     from a no-emulation boot image.  Some very old BIOSes can
		     only load very small images, setting this value to 4 will
		     often allow such BIOSes to load the first part of the
		     boot image (which will then need to be intelligent enough
		     to load the rest of itself).  This should not be needed
		     unless you are trying to support systems with very old
		     BIOSes.  This defaults to the full size of the image.
	     boot-type=value
		     Specifies the boot semantics used by the El Torito boot
		     image: If the value is fd, then the boot image is assumed
		     to be a bootable floppy image.  If the value is hd, then
		     the boot image is assumed to be a bootable hard disk im‐
		     age.  If the value is no-emulation, the boot image is
		     used without floppy or hard disk emulation.  If the boot
		     image is exactly 1.2MB, 1.44MB, or 2.88MB, then the de‐
		     fault is fd, otherwise the default is no-emulation.
     Format iso9660 - filename and size extensions
	     Various extensions to the base ISO9660 format.
	     allow-ldots
		     If enabled, allows filenames to begin with a leading pe‐
		     riod.  If disabled, filenames that begin with a leading
		     period will have that period replaced by an underscore
		     character in the standard ISO9660 namespace.  This does
		     not impact names stored in the Rockridge or Joliet exten‐
		     sion area.  Default: disabled.
	     allow-lowercase
		     If enabled, allows filenames to contain lowercase charac‐
		     ters.  If disabled, filenames will be forced to upper‐
		     case.  This does not impact names stored in the Rockridge
		     or Joliet extension area.	Default: disabled.
	     allow-multidot
		     If enabled, allows filenames to contain multiple period
		     characters, in violation of the ISO9660 specification.
		     If disabled, additional periods will be converted to un‐
		     derscore characters.  This does not impact names stored
		     in the Rockridge or Joliet extension area.  Default: dis‐
		     abled.
	     allow-period
		     If enabled, allows filenames to contain trailing period
		     characters, in violation of the ISO9660 specification.
		     If disabled, trailing periods will be converted to under‐
		     score characters.	This does not impact names stored in
		     the Rockridge or Joliet extension area.  Default: dis‐
		     abled.
	     allow-pvd-lowercase
		     If enabled, the Primary Volume Descriptor may contain
		     lowercase ASCII characters, in violation of the ISO9660
		     specification.  If disabled, characters will be converted
		     to uppercase ASCII.  Default: disabled.
	     allow-sharp-tilde
		     If enabled, sharp and tilde characters will be permitted
		     in filenames, in violation if the ISO9660 specification.
		     If disabled, such characters will be converted to under‐
		     score characters.	Default: disabled.
	     allow-vernum
		     If enabled, version numbers will be included with files.
		     If disabled, version numbers will be suppressed, in vio‐
		     lation of the ISO9660 standard.  This does not impact
		     names stored in the Rockridge or Joliet extension area.
		     Default: enabled.
	     iso-level
		     This enables support for file size and file name exten‐
		     sions in the core ISO9660 area.  The name extensions
		     specified here do not affect the names stored in the
		     Rockridge or Joliet extension areas.
		     iso-level=1
			     The most compliant form of ISO9660 image.	File‐
			     names are limited to 8.3 uppercase format, direc‐
			     tory names are limited to 8 uppercase characters,
			     files are limited to 4 GiB, the complete ISO9660
			     image cannot exceed 4 GiB.
		     iso-level=2
			     Filenames are limited to 30 uppercase characters
			     with a 30-character extension, directory names
			     are limited to 30 characters, files are limited
			     to 4 GiB.
		     iso-level=3
			     As with iso-level=2, except that files may exceed
			     4 GiB.
		     iso-level=4
			     As with iso-level=3, except that filenames may be
			     up to 193 characters and may include arbitrary
			     8-bit characters.
	     joliet  Microsoft's Joliet extensions store a completely separate
		     set of directory information about each file.  In partic‐
		     ular, this information includes Unicode filenames of up
		     to 255 characters.  Default: enabled.
	     limit-depth
		     If enabled, libarchive will use directory relocation
		     records to ensure that no pathname exceeds the ISO9660
		     limit of 8 directory levels.  If disabled, no relocation
		     will occur.  Default: enabled.
	     limit-dirs
		     If enabled, libarchive will cause an error if there are
		     more than 65536 directories.  If disabled, there is no
		     limit on the number of directories.  Default: enabled
	     pad     If enabled, 300 kiB of zero bytes will be appended to the
		     end of the archive.  Default: enabled
	     relaxed-filenames
		     If enabled, all 7-bit ASCII characters are permitted in
		     filenames (except lowercase characters unless
		     allow-lowercase is also specified).  This violates
		     ISO9660 standards.  This does not impact names stored in
		     the Rockridge or Joliet extension area.  Default: dis‐
		     abled.
	     rockridge
		     The Rockridge extensions store an additional set of
		     POSIX-style file information with each file, including
		     mtime, atime, ctime, permissions, and long filenames with
		     arbitrary 8-bit characters.  These extensions also sup‐
		     port symbolic links and other POSIX file types.  Default:
		     enabled.
     Format iso9660 - zisofs support
	     The zisofs extensions permit each file to be independently com‐
	     pressed using a gzip-compatible compression.  This can provide
	     significant size savings, but requires the reading system to have
	     support for these extensions.  These extensions are disabled by
	     default.
	     compression-level=number
		     The compression level used by the deflate compressor.
		     Ranges from 0 (least effort) to 9 (most effort).  De‐
		     fault: 6
	     zisofs  Synonym for zisofs=direct.
	     zisofs=direct
		     Compress each file in the archive.  Unlike
		     zisofs=indirect, this is handled entirely within
		     libarchive and does not require a separate utility.  For
		     best results, libarchive tests each file and will store
		     the file uncompressed if the compression does not actu‐
		     ally save any space.  In particular, files under 2k will
		     never be compressed.  Note that boot image files are
		     never compressed.
	     zisofs=indirect
		     Recognizes files that have already been compressed with
		     the mkzftree utility and sets up the necessary file meta‐
		     data so that readers will correctly identify these as
		     zisofs-compressed files.
	     zisofs-exclude=filename
		     Specifies a filename that should not be compressed when
		     using zisofs=direct.  This option can be provided multi‐
		     ple times to suppress compression on many files.
     Format mtree
	     cksum, device, flags, gid, gname, indent, link, md5, mode, nlink,
		     rmd160, sha1, sha256, sha384, sha512, size, time, uid,
		     uname
		     Enable a particular keyword in the mtree output.  Prefix
		     with an exclamation mark to disable the corresponding
		     keyword.  The default is equivalent to “device, flags,
		     gid, gname, link, mode, nlink, size, time, type, uid,
		     uname”.
	     all     Enables all of the above keywords.
	     use-set
		     Enables generation of /set lines that specify default
		     values for the following files and/or directories.
	     indent  XXX needs explanation XXX
     Format newc
	     hdrcharset
		     The value is used as a character set name that will be
		     used when translating file names.
     Format odc
	     hdrcharset
		     The value is used as a character set name that will be
		     used when translating file names.
     Format pwb
	     hdrcharset
		     The value is used as a character set name that will be
		     used when translating file names.
     Format pax
	     hdrcharset
		     The value is used as a character set name that will be
		     used when translating file, group and user names.	The
		     value is one of “BINARY” or “UTF-8”.  With “BINARY” there
		     is no character conversion, with “UTF-8” names are con‐
		     verted to UTF-8.
	     xattrheader
		     When storing extended attributes, this option configures
		     which headers should be written. The value is one of
		     “all”, “LIBARCHIVE”, or “SCHILY”.	By default, both
		     “LIBARCHIVE.xattr” and “SCHILY.xattr” headers are writ‐
		     ten.
     Format ustar
	     hdrcharset
		     The value is used as a character set name that will be
		     used when translating file, group and user names.
     Format v7tar
	     hdrcharset
		     The value is used as a character set name that will be
		     used when translating file, group and user names.
     Format warc
	     omit-warcinfo
		     Set to “true” to disable output of the warcinfo record.
     Format xar
	     checksum=type
		     Use type as file checksum method.	Supported values are
		     “none”, “md5”, and “sha1” (default).
	     compression=type
		     Use type as compression method.  Supported values are
		     “none”, “bzip2”, “gzip” (default), “lzma” and “xz”.
	     compression_level
		     The value is a decimal integer from 1 to 9 specifying the
		     compression level.
	     toc-checksum=type
		     Use type as table of contents checksum method.  Supported
		     values are “none”, “md5” and “sha1” (default).
     Format zip
	     compression
		     The value is either “store” or “deflate” to indicate how
		     the following entries should be compressed.  Note that
		     this setting is ignored for directories, symbolic links,
		     and other special entries.
	     compression-level
		     The value is interpreted as a decimal integer specifying
		     the compression level.  Values between 0 and 9 are sup‐
		     ported.  A compression level of 0 switches the compres‐
		     sion method to “store”, other values will enable
		     “deflate” compression with the given level.
	     encryption
		     Enable encryption using traditional zip encryption.
	     encryption=type
		     Use type as encryption type.  Supported values are
		     “zipcrypt” (traditional zip encryption), “aes128” (WinZip
		     AES-128 encryption) and “aes256” (WinZip AES-256
		     encryption).
	     experimental
		     This boolean option enables or disables experimental Zip
		     features that may not be compatible with other Zip imple‐
		     mentations.
	     fakecrc32
		     This boolean option disables CRC calculations.  All CRC
		     fields are set to zero.  It should not be used except for
		     testing purposes.
	     hdrcharset
		     The value is used as a character set name that will be
		     used when translating file names.
	     zip64   Zip64 extensions provide additional file size information
		     for entries larger than 4 GiB.  They also provide ex‐
		     tended file offset and archive size information when ar‐
		     chives exceed 4 GiB.  By default, the Zip writer selec‐
		     tively enables these extensions only as needed.  In par‐
		     ticular, if the file size is unknown, the Zip writer will
		     include Zip64 extensions to guard against the possibility
		     that the file might be larger than 4 GiB.

		     Setting this boolean option will force the writer to use
		     Zip64 extensions even for small files that would not oth‐
		     erwise require them.  This is primarily useful for test‐
		     ing.

		     Disabling this option with !zip64 will force the Zip
		     writer to avoid Zip64 extensions: It will reject files
		     with size greater than 4 GiB, it will reject any new en‐
		     tries once the total archive size reaches 4 GiB, and it
		     will not use Zip64 extensions for files with unknown
		     size.  In particular, this can improve compatibility when
		     generating archives where the entry sizes are not known
		     in advance.

EXAMPLES
     The following example creates an archive write handle to create a gzip-
     compressed ISO9660 format image.  The two options here specify that the
     ISO9660 archive will use kernel.img as the boot image for El Torito boot‐
     ing, and that the gzip compressor should use the maximum compression
     level.

	   a = archive_write_new();
	   archive_write_add_filter_gzip(a);
	   archive_write_set_format_iso9660(a);
	   archive_write_set_options(a, "boot=kernel.img,compression=9");
	   archive_write_open_filename(a, filename, blocksize);

ERRORS
     More detailed error codes and textual descriptions are available from the
     archive_errno() and archive_error_string() functions.

SEE ALSO
     tar(1), archive_read_set_options(3), archive_write(3), libarchive(3)

HISTORY
     The libarchive library first appeared in FreeBSD 5.3.

AUTHORS
     The options support for libarchive was originally implemented by
     Michihiro NAKAJIMA.

BUGS
BSD			       January 31, 2020 			   BSD
